In the previous video, we already learn how
to find the best prefix that we can use in
the computer network.
And as I said, in this video we are going
to learn with another case to find the best
prefix we can use.
Let’s say here we have a computer network
that consists of 60 computers.
The question is, which prefix is the best
we can use?
Now, pause the video and try to calculate
it first by your self.
After you find the answer, you can continue
watching this video and see if your answer
is correct or no.
Okay, how?
Do you find the best prefix for 60 computers?
Now let’s take a look at my explanation.
First, let’s write the powers that we do
in the previous video.
2 to the power of 1 is 2, 2 to the power 2
is 2 multiply by 2, which is 4, 2 to the power
of 3 is 4 multiply by 2, which is 8, 2 to
the power of 4 is 8 multiply by 2, which is 16
2 to the power of 5 is 16 multiply by 2 which
is 32.
2 to the power of 6 is 32 multiply by 2, which
is 64.
2 to the power of 7 is 64 multiply by 2 which
is 128, and last, 2 to the power of 8 is 128
multiply by 2, which is 256.
Now let’s find the best for 60 computers.
If we see until 2 to the power of 5, here
we know that the total IP is still 32,
this not enough.
But 2 to the power of 6 is 64, and this is
enough for 60 computers.
So the best prefix for 60 PC is 32 minus 6,
which is /26.
Another example, let’s say here we have
a computer network that consist of 100 computers.
Which pefix is the best to use?
We can just see the power calculation that
we already do.
The answer is 2 to the power of 7, which is
128.
If we use 2 to the power of 6, this is not
enough, and if we use 2 to the power of 8,
this is to much.
So the best is, 2 to the power of 7.
And the prefix will be 32 minus 7, which is
/25
Okay now I hope you really understand how
to find the best prefix we can use in the
computer network.
Thankyou for watching and see you in the next
video!